This gets a little bit trickier, however,
when we think about the piece
with state management.
Because the paradox that
we have to solve for
with TypeScript is you cannot
create like a set, if you use,
you state, you can't create the like
setter outside of a component.
You can only use hooks inside
of a functional component and
you can only create your
context outside of a component,
right because you can't export
anything from inside of component.
So, create contacts needs to get
called outside of a component but
if you want access to dispatch, or if you
want access to set name or set whatever
the US state is that you're setting like
you can only do that inside of the hook.
Which the conundrum that creates for
ourselves ourselves is,
by definition, we are not going
to have all of the information
TypeScript needs when we create
the context to make it happy.
And there are three ways that we can
solve for this, we'll do two now,
one at the very end of this course.
I'm gonna argue that the second
is probably our best choice, but
the it's like one of those things,
the third is the correct choice and
the second is the best choice.
We're gonna look at
different ways to solve for
that problem in TypeScript and react.
So let's make a new one,
I'm gonna call this one just
I'll call this one context TSX.
This is the kind of the more real one,
it has what we already
have that file in here.
So we've got context TSX,
right now it's an empty file.
And again, the state in this application
is red, green and blue values that's
effective was passed all these inputs,
it's a fact of the past is color swatch.
It is so
we can define that right now there is
an RGB color type that we can use.
And so what we can do is we can do import.
RGB color type, and we'll bring that,
from dot slash types.
So one thing to note that we haven't
really seen before right now is that
you can import and export types just
as you would import export JavaScript
functions or objects or primitives and
stuff along that it works the same way.
It all gets stripped out of your code
because TypeScript is not necessarily.
Is that without running TypeScript in
the browser where JavaScript is coming
out the other end, this is kind of a
compile time check, but you can import and
export things and
kind of pass them around like that.
So I pulled in this color type, which is
an interface actually, which again, for
our purposes, there's no practical
difference in the in how we're using them,
like that's not to say like we
looked at the chart earlier.
There are differences, but for our use
case, I chose to use interfaces one just
to demonstrate some of the how the syntax
can be a little bit different.
And so the RGB color type is
simply if we go and click on it or
you actually hold command and
see it as well.
It's red, green and blue and their
numbers I'll just show you that again.
As you can see, you can kind of see
it if you, if you hold him out.
All right, so really all that
our our state is gonna be for
this context API is those
three values plus dispatch.
And so if I go into my reducer,
there's also before we made those counter
actions and the calculator pizza actions.
If you go into the reducer,
you can see I have this idea of
an adjustment action as well.
So we know what it's gonna dispatch, and
we saw before that the type is gonna be
dispatched with of the actions
it expects to dispatch.
So, we're gonna run into the problem with
the fact that like, I will not have this
when we just define the context and that's
what we're gonna try to work around.
But let's at least get
to the point where we
can say interface is RGB context type.
Now we'll extend this RGB color type.
So the red green and
blue plus dispatch should be
react dispatch, adjustment action.
All right.
So what I would normally do at this
point is I would pass in the red,
green blue default values
plus the dispatch function.
So, I could use it throughout
my application, but
as I kind of mentioned earlier,
one of the problems that I have,
is I can only create dispatch inside
of a react component using hooks.
And I can only create my context outside
of a reaction point where I can't
use hooks.
Which means there will be a brief moment
in time where I don't have dispatch yet
even though TypeScript is expecting
that as part of that object.
And that is gonna be what we
have to try to deal with.
So at this point,
we will export this constant of RGB
context that's gonna be
this react create context.
And I don't really have anything to pass
in there yet, it's like a pass it no.
And if you remember from our use
state example before you can
see like kinda where this is
gonna eventually lead us, but
we'll deal with that when we get there.
So yeah, I could put in what
type it should be in here,
I'm gonna get yelled at but
we do know if we're being fair,
we do know that it is
this RGB context type.
Right, and now it's angry cuz Nelly is
not something that conforms to that type,
like I said,
we will deal with that momentarily.
Let's actually get the provider up and
running again.
So RGB contacts provider.
This point will have children and
children is gonna be of the type,
react node.
And what that's going to do is
we'll this is where we'll get to
use our use reducer, and
we're gonna get our RGB.
In fact,
it's actually the colors in this case,
yeah their state is simply RGB, and
we'll have that dispatch as well.
And that will be react, use reducer,
pass in the reducer that will
auto import from that file.
And we know that this reducer
is expecting RGB color type,
I can define one explicitly or
as long as it conforms to
the value as we've seen before,
red, green, and blue.
I don't have to say like,
as long as testing can confirm, it's okay,
I don't necessarily have
to tell it anything.
Neat, and then we'll just
return RGB context dot provider
Children And
it wants a value,
I get my curly brace there.
It wants a value, and
we'll give it three colors,
plus dispatch and I gotta add
a second set of curly braces there.
All right, so
we've got all of that in place, I probably
made a boo boo somewhere over here.
Let's see, X are not const there we go.
And we've got that ready to use, and so
now we can just wrap it in index as well.
Crop, and so
now that's available for us, and
we can pull it into color sliders and
color swatch.
I'm only gonna worry about the sliders for
now,
I'm gonna deal with the input
fields in a little bit.
So for the sliders, we're just gonna say
Instead of passing all these items in,
we don't really need to
pass anything anymore.
Now we can not because we'll
get it off in the context,
I'll delete that in a second though.
Colors will say red, green and blue,
dispatch will equal use context.
Give it the RGB context.
Cool and those are w defines,
we'll just get rid of those as well.
And we've got all that in place, and
we'll get something similar here for
the color swatch,
which will need it as well.
I don't need dispatch in this case.
All right.